@c This is part of the PnetCDF documentation. See COPYRIGHT file
@c for terms of use.

@c This file is included by the manual texi files, and contains
@c common definitions.

@c $Id$

@c The canonical name for each manual.
@set n-man The PnetCDF Users Guide
@set c-man The PnetCDF C Interface Guide
@set cxx-man The PnetCDF C++ Interface Guide
@set f77-man The PnetCDF Fortran 77 Interface Guide
@set f90-man The PnetCDF Fortran 90 Interface Guide
@set i-man The PnetCDF Installation and Porting Guide
@set tut-man The PnetCDF Tutorial
@set j-man The PnetCDF Java User Manual

@c PnetCDF support email.
@set pnetcdf-support-email parallel-netcdf@mcs.anl.gov

@c Home pages for internal stuff like netcdf, netcdf-4, netcdf java,
@c Unidata, etc.
@set unidata-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu
@set netcdf-url @value{unidata-url}/software/netcdf
@set netcdf-4-url @value{netcdf-url}/netcdf-4
@set netcdf-java-url @value{unidata-url}/software/netcdf-java
@set ucar-url http://www.ucar.edu
@set uop-url http://www.uop.ucar.edu

@c External web pages.
@set hdf5-url http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5
@set hdf5-tutorial-url @value{hdf5-url}/doc/Tutor
@set cygwin-url http://www.cygwin.com
@set mingw-url http://www.mingw.org
@set mingw-faq @value{mingw-url}/mingwfaq.shtml
@set woe32-url http://www.haible.de/bruno/woe32dll.html
@set red-hat-w32-url http://www.redhat.com/docs/manuals/enterprise/RHEL-4-Manual/gnu-linker/win32.html
@set cf-url http://cf-pcmdi.llnl.gov

@c urls for netcdf documents
@set docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/docs
@set old-docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/old_docs
@set v2-docs-url @value{netcdf-url}/guide_toc.html
@set pre360-install-url @value{old-docs-url}/INSTALL_pre_360.html
@set 360-install-url @value{old-docs-url}/docs_3_6_0/netcdf-install
@set 361-install-url @value{old-docs-url}/docs_3_6_1/netcdf-install
@set install-url @value{docs-url}/netcdf-install
@set netcdf-install-url @value{docs-url}/netcdf-install
@set netcdf-faq-url @value{netcdf-url}/faq.html
@set netcdf-shared-faq-url @value{netcdf-faq-url}#using_shared_p
@set netcdf-builds @value{netcdf-url}/builds
@set netcdf-other-builds @value{netcdf-url}/other-builds.html
@set netcdf-software-url @value{netcdf-url}/software.html
@set known-problems-url @value{docs-url}/known_problems.html
@set netcdf-java-man-url @value{netcdf-java-url}/v2.1/NetcdfJavaUserManual.htm

@c urls to search on-line stuff
@set netcdf-support-search-url /search.jsp?support&netcdf
@set netcdf-list-search-url /search.jsp?netcdfgroup

@c places to get downloads
@set ftp-site ftp://ftp.unidata.ucar.edu/pub/netcdf
@set netcdf-binaries-url @value{netcdf-url}/binaries.html
@set windows-ftp-site @value{ftp-site}/contrib/win32

@c Tools mentioned in the netCDF tutorial.
@set idv-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/idv
@set udunits-url http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/udunits
@set ncl-url http://www.ncl.ucar.edu
@set nco-url http://nco.sourceforge.net
@set grads-url http://grads.iges.org/grads/grads.html

@macro legalid
For CDF-1, a legal identifier is any sequence of one or more alphabetic
characters, digits, and the following special characters:
'_', '.', '-', '@@', and '+'. The identifier must, however, start with an
alphabetic character or underscore. Case is significant
and names commencing with underscore are reserved for system use.
Starting from CDF-2, more characters are allowed.
Please refer to @ref{CDF-2 file format specification} and @ref{CDF-5 file format specification}.
@end macro

@macro legalidentifier
@legalid

Note specifically that the extended ISO8859 character set
(characters in the range 0x80-0xFF)
are specifically excluded because they conflict with
the UTF8 format (if that is enabled).
@end macro

@macro legaliddeprecate
The set of legal identifier characters (after the first character)
has been unofficially extended to include the following characters:
':', '(', and ')'.
The use of these characters is deprecated and conforming files should
not use them.
They may declared illegal in the future and are currently not
supported in ncgen.
@end macro

@macro allowutf
If UTF8 support is enabled, then CDL names may contain any legal
UTF8 multibyte character.
@end macro

@macro legalidshort
@legalid
@end macro

@setchapternewpage odd
@finalout
@copying 
@sp 1
Copyright @copyright{} 2003 Northwertern University and Argonne National
Laboratory.

Portions of this software were developed by the Unidata Program at the
University Corporation for Atmospheric Research.

Access and use of this software shall impose the following obligations and
understandings on the user. The user is granted the right, without any fee or
cost, to use, copy, modify, alter, enhance and distribute this software, and
any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation for any purpose
whatsoever, provided that this entire notice appears in all copies of the
software, derivative works and supporting documentation.  Further, Northwestern
University and Argonne National Laboratory request that the user credit
Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory in any publications
that result from the use of this software or in any product that includes this
software.  The names Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory,
however, may not be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote
any products or commercial entity unless specific written permission is
obtained from Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory. The user
also understands that Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory
are not obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting, training or
assistance of any kind with regard to the use, operation and performance of
this software nor to provide the user with any updates, revisions, new versions
or "bug fixes."

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY AND ARGONNE NATIONAL
LABORATORY "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY
AND ARGONNE NATIONAL LABORATORY BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF
THIS SOFTWARE.
@sp 1
@end copying
