[PnetCDF](https://parallel-netcdf.github.io) Version 1.11.2 Release Notes (May 13, 2019)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Bug fixes
  + When configure command-line option `--enable-netcdf4` is used, errors may
    occur during the configure or make time. Thanks Bruno Pagani for reporting.
    See bug fix in
    [pull request #46](https://github.com/Parallel-NetCDF/PnetCDF/pull/46).
  + Fix configure date setting when environment variable `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH`
    is set.

* Clarifications
  + Limitation of supporting NetCDF-4 driver -- a list of APIs that are not
    supported for NetCDF-4 files is given in `doc/README.NetCDF4.md`. Error
    code `NC_ENOTSUPPORT` is returned when those APIs are called.

* Other updates:
  + Utility program `ncoffsets` is updated to skip printing the dimension names
    if the number of dimensions of a variable is larger than 64.This predefined
    constant can be changed a different number `N` by adding
    `-DMAX_PRINT_NDIMS=N` to the compile command line.
  + Utility program `ncvalidator` is updated to be able to repair the file
    header to fill in null-byte paddings in the space between the header size
    and header extent.
  + Add a note to `doc/README.CRAY` about a compilation issue encountered on
    Cori @ NERSC when module gcc/7.3.0 is loaded.
  + Change release date format from `Day Month, Year` to `Month Day, Year`.

* New test program
  + test/nc4/notsupport.c - Test if error code NC_ENOTSUPPORT is properly
    returned when calling APIs for unsupported NetCDF-4 feature.
  + test/nc4/rtst_rec_vars.c - Test record variables for NetCDF-4 files.
  + test/nc4/tst_2_rec_dims.c - Test opening a NetCDF-4 file containing more
    than one unlimited dimension on whether correct error can be returned.
  + test/nc4/tst_get_put_size.c - Test the amount of I/O so far for NetCDF-4
    files.
  + test/testcases/tst_version.c - Check whether PnetCDF version string
    returned from ncmpi_inq_libvers() matches the constant PNETCDF_VERSION
    defined in header file pnetcdf.h.

