[PnetCDF](https://parallel-netcdf.github.io) Version 1.15.0-alpha Release Notes (October 27, 2025)
-------------------------------------

* New feature
  + Intra-node aggregation for read requests is added. This is the complement
    of the write requests first implemented in version 1.14.0. Now intra-node
    aggregation supports both write and read operations. This feature can be
    enabled by setting hint `nc_num_aggrs_per_node` to the desired number of
    aggregators per compute node.

* New optimization
  + A new internal I/O driver, named `pncio`, is added which implements several
    strategies for performance improvement. A significant portion of this
    driver was developed to improve performance when Lustre is used. It
    includes the followings.
    * When creating a new file, it try to set the Lustre file striping count
      to the number of compute nodes allocated to the MPI communicator passed
      to `ncmpi_create()`, when I/O hint `striping_factor` is not explicitly
      set by the applications.
    * It automatically sets a good value for hint `cb_nodes` when it is not
      explicitly set by the applications.

* API deprecated
  + `vard` APIs introduced in version 1.6.0 are now deprecated. These are the
    API family that take an argument of MPI derived data type describing the
    file access layout, which is used as the fileview by the underlying MPI
    library.

* New error code
  + `NC_EFSTYPE` indicates an error when an invalid file system type is
    detected.

* New PnetCDF hint
  + `nc_pncio` -- To disable or enable the use of the internal `pncio` driver.
    Its string value is either "enable" or "disable". The default is "enable".


